[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Super
huge honor to be here.
For those of you that haven't heard
of me before, my name's Kyle Simpson,
known as @getify online and all the places
that matter, you can find me at @getify,
so Twitter, GitHub, Gmail,
everywhere that you want.
So I make all that stuff available so
that I can encourage feedback.
I might say something today
that's particularly confusing, or
I might say something that you
just totally disagree with, and
that's entirely great if you want
to provide that sort of feedback.
So in addition to, if your watching
the slide, in addition to the chat room,
feel free afterwards, or
if you're watching these videos later,
feel free to reach out with any
sort of feedback about that.
Actually I think I want to self correct
myself so if I'm doing my counting or I,
just so make sure for posterity
sake I think this actually might be
workshop number seven and
then the next one we do is number eight.
So I think I've had web performance,
I've had advanced JavaScript,
I've had Node, I've had JavaScript basics,
I've had coercion,
I've had organizing
JavaScript functionality.
So today makes number seven,
so that's pretty awesome.
It's a huge honor.
I mention that not just to
point out what is available,
but also I wanna always
give credit where it's due.
That very first workshop,
the web performance optimization, is the
very first workshop I did as a teacher.
Mark reached out to me sight unseen.
He'd seen a few of my conference talks.
And he said, hey, have you ever
thought about doing some teaching?
And he coerced me,
[LAUGH] convinced me to do some teaching.
I'd thought about that before but
never done this long-form
software development teaching.
So he gave me my shot, and I am now
a full-time teacher as a result of that.
So it's kinda like coming home,
to come back to Frontend Masters
to be part of this.
It's a fantastic platform and
I'm thankful for it, and
you all are incredibly
lucky to have access to it.
All right, so let's jump in.
I'm gonna try to keep my intro
about myself a bit brief
cuz they're on all the videos.
But just for those of you that
haven't heard of me before or
seen some of the stuff
that I've done before.
Just real quickly, in addition to doing
this teaching thing about JavaScript,
traveling all over and teaching and things
like that, I also do a lot of Open Source
development and I've got several dozen,
a couple dozen repos out there.
But just to point out a couple of ones
that are representative of the things I've
done, so LABjs probably the one most well
known for, it's a dynamic script loader.
It's been around now for
six and a half years.
It's been very stable.
It hasn't even changed in almost five
years because nothing has changed in
the script loading world for
five years, but that is changing.
HTTP version 2 coming along,
we're gonna see, I think, a renaissance or
a rebirth of interest in intelligent
script loading because with version 2,
you're gonna want to serve everything
as small and as many files as possible.
So if you're looking for
a performance-optimized script loader,
you might check out LABjs.
Grips is a templating engine.
Basically I've observed that there's
a bunch of problems that happen regardless
of how we present our views.
I think we've been fundamentally
asking the wrong questions.
And even the complete rethinking that
has happened recently with virtual DOMS,
React and Ember and all those, even those
are starting to make some of the same
mistakes that templating approaches made,
in terms of not asking
the tough questions about where where
the lines really should be drawn.
They've sort of played a switcheroo
on us and redefined some terms,
like what the notion of
concern actually is,
compared to what we used
to say 15 years ago.
And I was in the trenches when
we originally did those things,
but basically there's a lot
of problems that occur, and
I don't think that we've really asked
the right fundamental questions.
So grips is an attempt, an experiment,
an ongoing research experiment,
into asking maybe better questions about
where those lines should be drawn and
what we should be able to do and what we
shouldn't be able to do with our views,
what should be kept separate and
what shouldn't be kept separate.
So if you've had any pain
points around those or
if you feel like even with
the amazingness of something like React,
if you feel like you're still running
into those questions about how do I know
where something should be or
shouldn't be, you might check out grips.
I also have a CSS templating engine on
top of it because CSS preprocessing
is exactly the same thing with
exactly the same problems.
And all of the current tools,
as great as they are,
all fall short of answering those
same questions in the same ways.
They didn't really learn any of those
lessons that we learned elsewhere.
So that's an ongoing research experiment.
It's not just a research experiment,
I actually use it in production on all
the sites that I've ever built, but
it is obviously in flux as I figure
out how to do things better.
So that, and then asynquence.
We're actually gonna not talk
much about asynquence today
in this workshop on
functional programming,
but it's a flow control library for
promises and generators and
even higher order asynchronous patterns
like observables and things like that.
It's designed specifically from
the perspective of teaching.
So it tries to take these
higher order concepts,
which are often pretty hard conceptually.
We can barely get our
heads around the APIs for
these things, but to understand
the concepts is really difficult.
So I tried to design the API
to teach the concepts.
That's what this library's all about.
If you don't already have something that's
helping you understand not just callbacks
or not just promises but even higher order
patterns like observables for example.
If you don't have one library that is
helping you navigate all of that and
understand the conceptuals.
Or if you feel like, man I really just,
I don't even understand what it's doing.
It's a black box and
I just treat it like that.
I encourage you to maybe check out
asynquence, see if that might help.
Okay, I am the head of curriculum for
Maker Square as of about three
months ago from today, well,
almost four months ago now.
So Maker Square is a developer
engineer training school.
We currently have three campuses,
Austin, San Francisco, and Los Angeles.
Other well-known names you might have
heard of like Iron Yard, General Assembly,
Hack Reactor, we're actually part of the
Hack Reactor network of partner schools.
We're owned by Hack Reactor.
So if you've heard of
those sorts of schools.
Flat Iron is another one,
if you're from the New York area
you've probably heard of that.
So we sort of are trying to
shift towards the upper end
of this spectrum of developer
engineer training schools.
Kind of like to say that we're trying
to become sort of like the MIT
of developer training engineer schools.
We're not just anybody that can commit.
A lot of people apply and
can't pass the entrance test, for example.
So we set a very high bar, but
that means that when you come out of
the school you're even
further along in your career.
You're a full-fledged
intermediate developer.
So we take that very seriously.
It's full stack JavaScript.
And I'm newly in this post.
I take it very seriously to make sure that
you have absolutely the best-in-class
possible education around JavaScript.
So in addition to doing trainings like
this, and we do corporate trainings,
I also manage the curriculum for
those in-person classes.
So if you're listening on the video or
here in person and you're interested
in this, maybe you know somebody that
would like to get in or maybe you yourself
would be interested in something, I'd love
for you to reach out and ask questions.
I'd love to chat with you about that.
In addition, you should also know,
and many of you probably have heard,
of the book series that I wrote on
JavaScript called You Don't Know JS.
I oftentimes get asked,
where does that name come from?
Obviously there's a little bit
of tongue-in-cheek joke there.
But where does the book come from?
Where does the book title come from?
Honestly, the reason for that,
it was really more about
myself than anybody else.
The two years that I spent writing
this six-book 1,100-page series,
it's all available for
free online so you can check it out.
You can also purchase the books.
But the journey that I went through caused
me to realize that there is no attaining
of full knowledge.
It's asymptotic.
You approach closer and closer to a full
understanding as you learn more and more,
but you never actually fully arrive and so
we have to commit ourselves not to just,
hey, I'm just gonna spend this month and
become a master of JavaScript.
I've been at this 17 years and
I'm nowhere near calling
myself a master of JavaScript.
But what I've done is kept asking
those questions and getting closer and
closer and closer to that line of
deeper and deeper understanding.
And I regularly, regularly, week after
week and day after day, run across
something that I thought I understood and
then I more fully understand it.
And then I'm like, there's so
much embarrassing code that I
wish I could go back and fix.
So really the title of the series is to
sort of gently challenge all of us to
adopt that continuous learning mindset.
The workshops that I've done through
Frontend Masters are the same perspective,
and they track very closely to the kinds
of things we talk about in the books.